---
title: I can open a beer with anything
description: From the exciting desk of Will Fowler
date: 2025-09-11
---

When I was about 18, I was working with a guy named Darryl. We both worked for 
my cousin, he was the mechanic and foreman, I was just a helping hand. We were
working after hours in the shop on our own vehicles, he on his motorbike that
he was rebuilding (an old Honda, if I remember correctly), and I was working
on my pride and joy. My 1981 Volvo.


It wasn't just any Volvo - it was a cream coloured, two door coupe, about 90
horsepower, and I knew just how to press that awkward shifter with my palm
and move it into low so I could hopefully chirp the tires as I sped off in my
teenaged freedom.


My grandmother essentially willed the car to me - I remember clearly her asking
my dad for a dollar, and not telling us why. She was in the hospital and it
was pretty clear she was going to stay. She focused on the dollar closely, asking
my dad for one several times until he finally relented. As he passed the dollar
she slipped the pink slip into his hands. I didn't know my grandmother that well
unfortunately, but that was her style from my perspective. A deal needed to be
struck, and so she made it happen.

Anyways, back to working on the vehicle with Darryl - we were having beers while
working on our cars, he was big into Dos Equis at the time, and it comes in a green
bottle. I tell you this because it was an import, and the cap had to be popped
off. One of Darryl's trademark moves was to open the beer with something 
improvisational. This was always good for a laugh from me as we were working in a 
shop with infinite tools, but there was always an opportunity to get creative with
this little act.


The outcome that we were looking for is obvious, an opened beer. The tools we had
around us were hammers, wrenches, air equipment, welding equipment, you name it.
Darryl opened my car door, and discovered gleefully that the latch, that metal
loop that my car door grabbed onto when it closed, fit the lid of his beer bottle
perfectly. Of all the tools around us, Darryl opened his beer with my car.


I learned something from that surprising act that I carry with me to this day, and
it's served me well so far. That improvisational approach to problem solving has
done me well over the years. I rarely sit at a job and think - "I'm not trained for
this", I am more inclined to think "what do I have access to that can help me do
this job?" It's not some skill that I am trying to lord over others, but I think it's 
just a useful perspective to have sometimes when you're stumped, or when you're 
looking at software and thinking about the job that you have to do.


I recently showed a prototype that I'd made to some potential clients that took a
bit of a leap from their original description of the solution to their problem. 
They wanted a really wide table (~30 columns), and I showed them a 4 column table
with the last column having room for their 26 statuses that could be described 
by a simple tagging system, plus with plenty of entropy for them to have more!


They looked at my solution and couldn't quite see their problem being solved, when
they saw my proposal. "If only they'd seen Darryl open that beer!" I thought to
myself, then they'd understand that they could find the outcomes they're 
looking for (informed staff) in my solution (a sweet tagging system) just like
Darryl saw the opened beer in my car door latch.


But I suppose not everyone thinks like that, and that's part of my job - I need
to bring these two worlds _just_ close enough together until that picture snaps
into place in both our minds. After all - a key value pair doesn't really need
to look like a tag, does it? And we have their complete set of keys and values
that they need to display in this table, don't we?


So now the challenge is to strike that balance, find the perfect solution that
solves the customers' problem, other customers love, sells the next ten customers,
makes the designers and developers gleeful with it's simplicity and lack of 
tech debt.


I need to find my latch for the car door of my '81 Volvo and open a beer.
