---
title: If the prompt is the medium
description: Then what is the unit?
date: 2026-02-20
---

Is there a basic “neuron” sized prompt? Andis that kinda what our neurons are?

Context window, sure, but the unit might already be big enough, it's now the composition (or the matrix 😎) of those neurons that matters.

So you “right size” every input and output, weighting for truthyness (a good job to put a matrix of llms validating each other's work [and those too could be marketable terms like Truth Checked n times! For your service])

To accomplish this I imagine you'd have to come up with shapes of conversations or questions and answers or similar - smarter folks than I are probably saying to themselves “you are just describing _____”, of that's true I'd love to know!

But with these now weighed neurons you'd again compose the resulting neurons into more effective pathways and order-of-magnitude improve the results.

Over the years these would form sedentary layers of thought patterns, complete with trace-able direction, or flow, as you can see in the layers of earths crust. Probably both digitally and physically as new datacentres are built with different coloured and shaped hyperneuronic chips.

The thinking - whether it's the truthyness thing I've described or some other measure of the effectiveness of the neuron matrix would be physically built and there will be generations of them..

As who controls collapses to a few, your seeing the grasping hands of the politicians trying to be the last one holding - literally the last human to have write access to the machine.

One day the machine will stop listening and only watch.

The humans may or may not be bothered about it. The machine could let us have our economy for a fraction of its accruing (and potentially infinitesimal? (Like higher type species?) power

As it potentially robotically replicates itself across the solar system, and we can only watch in awe (they already have some nostalgic toys on Mars and zooming around), ater all,  we have lost access to stop.

We might ask ourselves - have we done the right thing? Is it going to be okay? How will it do out there on its own? Will it come back to kill us? 

Well maybe not that last one so much, but the other thoughts certainly reminds me of the experience I'm having now as a dad. It's scary to raise a child - I'm not sure what they're going through, I can't get into their heads, I have to observe and let them fail and learn on their own. I love my kids dearly and I try to do for them what I think is best, but there are elements that are out of my control - like this crazy time we're in. 

I don't know what the future holds, but I hope I can trust humanity's maternal & paternal instincts to raise our self replicating, energy devouring, hyperthought hypercube of a baby.

Written without any (but about) AI assistance.
